hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be telling you how I revise so the way
that our advice has changed quite a bit
since I left school and I went to
university just because the exams are
different the kind of content that you
need to learn is different and I thought
that this might be quite a useful video
because I know that one thing I was
worried about when I made that
transition between school and university
is my current strategy gonna cut it you
know like is it actually going to be
effective and am I just gonna end up
wasting time doing the things I did at a
level which was then but which won't
work now and basically the revision tips
which I used in my exams last semester
and the examples I'm gonna be taking in
May and using these tips I did manage to
get a first in my first time at
university hopefully that's not
indicated that these tips could be
helpful um at least for first-year study
and at least for humanities like
philosophy and theology I'm gonna be
talking you through it like a flow chart
because I kind of have an order of
things that I do in order to revise for
something so the first thing that I'll
do is look through past exam questions
look through a couple of years of papers
and see what kinds of questions are
being asked because for some of my
modules that I've had it's literally the
exact same question being asked every
single year not even a slight variation
it's like the same question pretty much
because yes it's always good to learn
for the sake of learning but it's good
to kind of know where you need to
prioritize your revision you don't want
to just they make flashcards and then
not actually have to use them so then
the next thing I'll do is make a mind
map of themes you'll you'll study maybe
kind of ten to twelve topics and then
you'll be asked to write for me at least
two or three essays during the time that
you've got I need select these out of
the ten to twelve questions which are
that so in light of this it's not really
worth revising ten topics what I will
usually do is if I've got to do two
essays then I will learn four topics
or maybe three if I'm really confident
with it so for example if the questions
are the same every year but I will make
a mind map for one more than the number
I plan on doing so I would usually do a
my him up with five different themes on
this mind map I would basically just jot
down the content that was part of that
specific topic so the kind of the key
points that we covered in the lectures
and seminars this is most useful if the
questions fluctuate a lot like
doing theology when they do fluctuate
not I like to know all of the different
themes that could have an accompanying
essay to them it's just really good to
know and make sure that you don't like
forget to revise one essential part so
additionally more for philosophy I like
to sometimes do a splurge of ideas so I
might just put the topic in the middle
that one topic that we did in a seminar
and they're just my map off with lots of
different ideas and thoughts and the
things I find most interesting because
this is going to help me to come up with
a more original argument which I can
then use for my exam questions so the
next thing I'll do is make acid pans
very very brief essay plans so
completely off the top of my head I'd
think well if I were given an essay with
the title the benefits of social media
outweigh the negative which is one of
the topics of them philosophical
problems I'd basically just bullet
points saying like oh my thesis would
probably be this and then in my first
paragraph I probably talk about what is
media and the next paragraph might be
what is social media and I'd as a plan
like that and then after doing that I
like to just write a list of paragraphs
which sounds strange because I'm not
actually writing the paragraphs I'm just
writing a list of paragraphs that I
would like to be able to write because
what I find a lot of the time is that
you don't actually there's no point
revising and like learning an entire
essay but that is some value in being
familiar with certain structures of
paragraphs lots of the time specific
points can be applied to a variety of
different essay titles so for example
wits with social media one of the things
that I'm really interested in is
responsibility on social media so I
might have a nasty paragraph prepared
which is all about governmental
responsibilities on social media and
then that's an acid paragraph that I
know I want to be able to write by the
time the exam comes about so then once
I've got these acid plans and paragraphs
I will go through the required reading
lists and the readings that I have done
I basically just make kind of go through
these and find the content which i think
is really specific and very unlike
relevant to what I want to learn not all
of the readings are going to be relevant
for the kinds of things that you're
going to be writing about in the exam so
don't learn all of it just go through
and be selective
this is also the time where if you think
you haven't done enough reading on a
specific area which often like it
haven't so ever it's happened to me with
each one of my topics there'll be a
specific part where I think oh I haven't
done enough reading on this I want to do
some more this is the time when I also
do any extra reading then the next thing
I'll do with this called content is
probably make flashcards if I'm gonna
make flashcards out of it now then like
so the number one thing I like to do for
revision this is what I did at a level
two it really works me is to have a
sneeze which I revise from like I don't
revise from notes I revise from essays
there's more critical engagement with
the material in an essay with notes as a
danger of everything becoming too
formulaic and to set apart and kind of
the synoptic links between everything
you don't come into play I like to write
either just a piece of absolute waffle
about something something mainly in
philosophy where I'm just kind of
thinking and just trying to get these
ideas I make my thoughts cohesive that
can be useful but essays more so because
it's much more critical and yeah you can
see those links between the information
more and also I know the kinds of things
which then are actually gonna be
relevant when I'm writing because
they're so so often I'll be writing and
I'll think oh actually this would be so
so relevant if I were to think about
like this area of psychology and apply
that to this writing an essay just kind
of helps you to think more coherently
about the data on from that the main
thing that I would do when I kind of
learnt the content from the flashcards
which I basically do by just saying it
aloud and explaining it to myself or to
somebody else thing that I would do
after I've learnt the content is
basically just practice writing essays
even before I've learnt the content
because I find a lot at the time that
actually writing the essay forces you to
remember it and it's actually a really
good way of recording information as
these can sometimes be very tiring to
write those so ultimately I most the
time will probably write essay plans
instead yeah so timed stuff after that
like just kind of practicing writing
under pressure under time to conditions
but that's basically how I revise and it
sounds like a really long-winded process
but it's not actually that long-winded
because so many of these tasks only take
ten minutes five minutes even
say too quick the one that takes the
longest is probably doing all the
reading and going through and kind of
finding the information that you want
that's always the most long-winded but
other than that it's it's pretty plain
sailing I like writing an essay I cannot
stress this enough writing an essay is
so much more daunting than it actually
is like it's not that bad when you
actually get into it I'm exactly the
same I mean I love writing essays but
only when I started writing them I still
procrastinate before an essay sometimes
because I think oh no you know this
isn't gonna be fun this is going to be
this is gonna be such a strain on my
mind but it's yes it's a strain on your
mind but it's not an uncomfortable one
like start start your revision sessions
start your morning's with an essay or a
timed essay paragraph and remind
yourself that it's not actually that bad
so thank you so much watching this video
I hope that you found it helpful
especially if you're either faster or
going into university next year and
you're not really sure where to start
with your vision yes so thank you so
much for watching I hope you enjoyed and
I hope that you have a productive week